Activity File: DNS Hijacking
In this activity, you will continue to play the role of a security analyst at Acme Corp.
In the previous activity, you determined that the hacker is trying to access Acme Corp's trade secrets.
Acme Corp is concerned the hacker may try to access a website called acmetradesecrets.com. Acme must prevent the hacker from accessing this website.
Your task is to create and test out a DNS spoof record that will redirect any hacker trying to visit acmetradesecrets.org to another website.
This will first be tested on your machine, but later it will be added to the hacker's computer.
Instructions
Log into your Linux server.
Create a DNS spoof record for acmetradesecrets.org to be redirected to the IP address of 45.33.32.156 (scanme.nmap.org).
Open a browser in your Linux server and validate that when you access acmetradesecrets.com, it redirects correctly.
Bonus
Research how to apply the same DNS spoof record on a Windows machine or VM.
If you don't have access to a Windows machine, simply document the steps to create a DNS spoof record on a Windows system. If you have access to a Windows machine, apply the spoof record on it.


Solution Guide: DNS Hijacking
To complete this activity, you created a DNS spoof record that will redirect any hacker trying to visit acmetradesecrets.com to a different website.

Access the DNS hosts file on a Linux server:
On the Linux server, the hosts file is located at /etc/hosts.
To get there, run cd /etc from the terminal.
Run ls to confirm there is a file called hosts.
Modify the DNS hosts file to redirect the access of a website:
Edit the file by entering sudo nano hosts.
Add the following record to the bottom of the file:
45.33.32.156 www.acmetradesecrets.org
Exit and save your changes by entering Ctrl+X and select Y when prompted to save the file.
Validate that the DNS spoofing works by going to acmetradesecrets.com and verifying that the site is redirected:
Open a browser in your Linux host and enter www.acmetradesecrets.org.
This should automatically redirect to the other website, which should be scanme.nmap.org.
Bonus
If you have a Windows machine or VM, research how to apply the same DNS spoof record on your Windows machine and do so. If you don't have access to a Windows machine, simply document the steps to create a DNS spoof record on a Windows system.
On a Windows machine:
Edit the file using the same steps as in Linux, but find the hosts file at C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc.
Note: You must be an administrator to make this change.
To become an administrator, right-click on the Notepad application and select Run as administrator.
Copy and paste the whole hosts file, with your change, into the blank file.
Save the file as Hosts in C:\Windows\System32\drivers\etc.
Click OK to replace the current file.
Validate that the changes have taken place by going to www.acmetradesecrets.org in your browser in Windows.
