Activity File: Network Devices
In this activity, you will continue to play the role of a security analyst at Acme Corp.
Acme Corp just opened a new office in Shanghai, China.
Acme Corp has a list of employee computers and network devices to have in the Shanghai office.
Your task is to design the network layout for the Shanghai office using draw.io.
Additionally, you need to add network security devices to the design to protect against a network attack.
Instructions
Open draw.io and start a new project called "Shanghai Office."
Within draw.io, remember there is a field on the top left called "Search Shapes". Simply search for your devices here (e.g. routers, firewalls, and servers).
Design the office with the following computer and network devices:
(6) Employee computers
(2) Switches
(1) Router
(1) Load balancer
(1) Firewall
(1) Representation of the internet
(2) Servers
(1) Wireless access point with (1) firewall to protect it
Bonus
Create a DMZ.
Use lines to separate the DMZ, LAN, and WAN.
Add the server and load balancer to the DMZ and place the rest of the devices in appropriate locations.


Solution Guide: Network Devices
To complete this activity, you had to design a network layout for the new Shanghai office using draw.io.

The following solution is a general guideline. There are many ways to design the Shanghai network with the required devices. Use the following as a guide for reviewing your design.
It's important that your design includes the following characteristics:
The internet is protected by a firewall.
The load balancer is placed after the firewall.
The switches come after the router.
The computers come after the switches.
The servers can be placed in many places, as long as they are behind the load balancers.
There is a firewall between the wireless access point and the network.
The firewall for the wireless access point connects somewhere in the network (behind the router).

Bonus
Add the following:
Add a line indicating the separation of the DMZ, LAN, and WAN.
Place devices in their appropriate areas.




