Question 1
5 / 5 pts
In what type of architecture does the HTTP request and response process occur?
  HTTP functions in a serverless architecture. 
  HTTP uses client–server architecture. 
Correct. The client–server architecture accurately describes the relationship and interaction between a web client (like a browser) and a server.
  HTTP uses peer-to-peer architecture. 
  HTTP operates in a monolithic architecture. 
 
Question 2
5 / 5 pts
What are the different parts of an HTTP request?
  The request line, the request headers, and an optional request body 
Correct, these are the fundamental components that make up an HTTP request, ensuring proper communication and data transfer between the client and the server.
  The method, the URI, and the protocol version 
  Status line, status headers, and status body 
  The request method, the path, and the query parameters 
 
Question 3
5 / 5 pts
Which part of an HTTP request is optional?
  The request headers 
  The request method 
  The request body 
Correct. The request body is not required for all types of HTTP requests, such as GET requests, making it optional.
  The request line 
 
Question 4
5 / 5 pts
What are the three parts of an HTTP response?
  The method, the status, and the message 
  The protocol, the status code, and the status message 
  The status line, the response headers, and the response body 
Correct. These components form the structure of an HTTP response, each serving a specific purpose in delivering the response to the client.
  The request line, the request headers, and the request body 
 
Question 5
5 / 5 pts
Which number class of status codes represent errors?

 

  300 and 400 
  100 and 200 
  400 and 500 
The 400 and 500 series of status codes are designated for indicating various client and server errors, respectively.
  200 and 300 
 
Question 6
5 / 5 pts
What are the two most common request methods a security professional encounters?
  TRACE and OPTIONS requests 
  CONNECT and PATCH requests 
  PUT and DELETE requests 
  GET and POST requests 
GET and POST are the most widely used HTTP request methods, commonly encountered and scrutinized by security professionals.
 
Question 7
5 / 5 pts
Which type of HTTP request method is used for sending data?
  GET 
  DELETE 
  HEAD 
  POST 
Correct. The POST method is specifically designed to submit data to be processed to a specified resource.
 
Question 8
5 / 5 pts
What are the advantages of using curl over the browser?
  It allows you to easily see the response status lines. It is repeatable, can be automated, and can be edited while in use. 
Correct. curl is a versatile command-line tool used for making network requests, offering detailed control and visibility over the requests and responses.
  It can render JavaScript and display images and CSS like a browser. 
  It provides a graphical user interface for easier navigation. 
  It automatically stores cookies and session data for subsequent requests. 
 
Question 9
5 / 5 pts
Which curl option is used to change the request method?
  -X 
Correct. The -X option in curl explicitly specifies the request method to be used when communicating with the server.
  -A 
  -F 
  -d 
 
Question 10
5 / 5 pts
Which curl option is used to set request headers?
  -i 
  -G 
  -H 
Correct.  The -H option in curl is used to specify custom headers to be sent with the request.
  -X 
 
Question 11
5 / 5 pts
Which request method might an attacker use to figure out which HTTP requests an HTTP server will accept?
  HEAD 
  GET 
  OPTIONS 
Correct. The OPTIONS method is used to describe the communication options for the target resource, revealing methods that the server supports.
  POST 
 
Question 12
3 / 3 pts
Which response header sends a cookie to the client?
  Set-Cookie 
Correct, the  Set-Cookie header is specifically used to send cookies from the server to the client. The Content-Type header indicates the media type of the resource, Server header describes the software used by the originating server, and Accept-Encoding is a request header that indicates the encoding formats accepted by the client.
  Content-Type 
  Server 
  Accept-Encoding 
 
Question 13
5 / 5 pts
The following is an example HTTP request:

 

POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 34
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 6.0; Nexus 5 Build/MRA58N) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/80.0.3987.132 Mobile Safari/537.36
username=Barbara&password=password


What is the request method?

  POST 
Correct. This is a POST request.
  login.php 
  GET 
  gzip 
 
Question 14
5 / 5 pts
Sample HTTP request:


POST /login.php HTTP/1.1
Host: example.com
Accept-Encoding: gzip, deflate, br
Connection: keep-alive
Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded
Content-Length: 34
Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1
User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 (Linux; Android 6.0; Nexus 5 Build/MRA58N) AppleWebKit/537.36 (KHTML, like Gecko) Chrome/80.0.3987.132 Mobile Safari/537.36

username=Barbara&password=password

Which header expresses the client's preference for an encrypted response?

  Connection: keep-alive 
  Upgrade-Insecure-Requests: 1 
Correct, this header is the browser requesting an encrypted response.
  Content-Type: application/x-www-form-urlencoded 
  User-Agent: Mozilla/5.0 
 
Question 15
5 / 5 pts
HTTP/1.1 200 OK
Date: Mon, 16 Mar 2020 17:05:43 GMT
Last-Modified: Sat, 01 Feb 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Content-Encoding: gzip
Expires: Fri, 01 May 2020 00:00:00 GMT
Server: Apache
Set-Cookie: SessionID=5
Content-Type: text/html; charset=UTF-8
Strict-Transport-Security: max-age=31536000; includeSubDomains
X-Content-Type: NoSniff
X-Frame-Options: DENY
X-XSS-Protection: 1; mode=block
 

What is the response status code?

  5 
  200 
Correct. 200 status means the request was OK.
  2020 
  8 
 
Question 16
3 / 3 pts
What are the individual components of microservices called?
  Procedures 
  Functions 
  Services 
Correct. When a monolith's components are separated by functions, they are called services.
  Modules 
 
Question 17
5 / 5 pts
What is a service that writes to a database and communicates to other services?
  A middleware application 
  An application programming interface (API) 
 Correct. An API is the correct answer because it provides a set of protocols and tools for building software and applications, allowing different services to communicate with each other and with databases.
  A data entry interface 
  A protocol suite 
 
Question 18
5 / 5 pts
What tool can be used to deploy multiple containers at once?
  Docker Swarm 
  Kubernetes 
  Docker Hub 
  Docker Compose 
Correct. Docker Compose is specifically designed for defining and running multi-container Docker applications, making it the right tool for deploying multiple containers simultaneously.
 
Question 19
5 / 5 pts
What kind of file format is required for us to deploy a container set?
  XML 
  INI 
  YAML 
Correct. Docker Compose uses a YAML file (docker-compose.yml) to define services, networks, and volumes for docker containers, making it the standard for defining and running multi-container Docker applications.
  JSON 
 
Question 20
4 / 4 pts
Which type of SQL query would we use to see all the information in a table called "Customers"?
  SELECT * FROM customers; 
Correct. The SELECT * FROM customers; query is used to retrieve all data from the customers table, making it the correct choice for viewing all information in a table.
  ALTER TABLE customers; 
  CREATE TABLE customers; 
  UPDATE customers; 
 
Question 21
5 / 5 pts
Which type of SQL query would we use to enter new data into a table?
  INSERT INTO 
Correct. The INSERT INTO statement is used to add new rows of data to a table in the database, making it the correct choice for entering new data into a table.
  UPDATE 
  DELETE FROM 
  SELECT FROM 