Instructions
In a Network Far, Far Away!
You are a Network Jedi working for the Resistance.

The Sith Empire recently carried out a DoS attack, taking out the Resistance's core network infrastructure, including its DNS servers.

This attack destroyed the Resistance's ability to communicate via email and retrieve other crucial information about one another's operations. The Empire has taken advantage of this compromised availability by ambushing numerous Resistance outposts, all vulnerable because the Resistance can no longer call for help.

Your task is crucial: restore the Resistance's core DNS infrastructure and verify that traffic is routing as intended.

Good luck, and may the Force be with you!

Files Required
Dark Side PCAPLinks to an external site.
Galaxy Network MapLinks to an external site.
Instructions
Review each network issue in the missions below.

Document each DNS record type found.

Note the DNS records that explain the reasons for the network issue.

Recommend fixes to save the galaxy!

As you work through each mission, take notes as you will use the findings/answers to complete the questions in this quiz.

IMPORTANT: Please review your answers carefully before submitting to ensure that they are free of spelling and spacing errors. Incorrect spelling or spacing syntax will be marked as incorrect answers.

note
You can view the questions in this Challenge Quiz directly through your BCS course.

Topics Covered in This Assignment
DNS
nslookup
DNS record types
A, PTR, MX, NS, SOA, SRV, TXT
Wireless
WEP, WPA
Aircrack-ng
Wireshark Wireless analysis and decryption
Mission 1
Issue: With the DoS attack, the Empire took down the Resistance's DNS and primary email servers.

The Resistance's network team was able to build and deploy a new DNS server and mail server.

The new primary mail server is asltx.1.google.com, and the secondary mail server should be asltx.2.google.com.

The Resistance (starwars.com) is able to send emails but unable to receive any.

Your Mission:

Determine and document the mail servers for starwars.com using nslookup.

Explain why the Resistance isn't receiving any emails.

Document your suggested DNS corrections.

Mission 2
Issue: Now that you've addressed the mail servers, all emails are coming through. However, users are still reporting that they haven't received mail from the theforce.net alert bulletins.

Many of the alert bulletins are being blocked or going into spam folders.

This is probably because theforce.net changed its mail server's IP address to 45.23.176.21 while your network was down.

These alerts are critical for identifying pending attacks from the Empire.

Your Mission:

Determine and document the SPF for theforce.net using nslookup.

Explain why the Force's emails are going to spam.

Document your suggested DNS corrections.

Mission 3
Issue: You have successfully resolved all email issues and the Resistance can now receive alert bulletins. However, the Resistance can't easily read the details of alert bulletins online.

They are supposed to be automatically redirected from their subpage resistance.theforce.net to theforce.net.
Your Mission:

Document how a CNAME should look by viewing the CNAME of www.theforce.net using nslookup.

Explain why the subpage resistance.theforce.net isn't redirecting to theforce.net.

Document your suggested DNS corrections.

Mission 4
Issue: During the attack, it was determined that the Empire also took down the primary DNS server of princessleia.site.

Fortunately, the DNS server for princessleia.site is backed up and functioning.

However, the Resistance was unable to access this important site during the attacks, and they need you to prevent this from happening again.

The Resistance's networking team provided you with a backup DNS server of: ns2.galaxybackup.com.

Your Mission:

Confirm the NS (Name Server) Records for princessleia.site:
Check the NS records for the domain princessleia.site to ensure that it includes the backup DNS server ns2.galaxybackup.com.
Document how you would fix the NS records to prevent this issue from happening again:
If the backup DNS server is not listed in the NS records for princessleia.site, explain how you would update the NS records to include ns2.galaxybackup.com as a backup server.
Provide detailed steps for making the necessary changes to the domain's DNS settings.
Mission 5
Issue: The network traffic from the planet of Batuu to the planet of Jedha is very slow.

You have access to a network map with a list of connected planets between Batuu and Jedha.

It has been determined that the slowness is due to the Empire attacking Planet N.

Your Mission:

View the Galaxy Network MapLinks to an external site., and determine the OSPF shortest path from Batuu to Jedha.

Document the shortest path so that the Resistance can use it to develop a static route to improve the traffic.

Confirm that your path doesn't include Planet N in its route.

Mission 6
Issue: The Resistance is determined to seek revenge for the damage the Empire has caused with all of its attacks.

You are tasked with gathering secret information from the Dark Side network servers that can be used to launch network attacks against the Empire.

You have captured some of the Dark Side's encrypted wireless internet traffic in the following PCAP: Dark Side PCAPLinks to an external site..

Your Mission:

Figure out the Dark Side's secret wireless key by using Aircrack-ng.
hint
This is a more challenging encrypted wireless traffic using WPA.

To decrypt, you will need to use a wordlist (-w) such as rockyou.txt.
Use the Dark Side's key to decrypt the wireless traffic in Wireshark.
hint
The format for the key to decrypt wireless is <Wireless_key>:<SSID>.

Once you have decrypted the traffic, figure out the Dark Side's host IP addresses and MAC addresses (examine the decrypted ARP traffic).

Document these IP and MAC addresses, as the Resistance will use them to launch a retaliatory attack.

Mission 7
Issue: As a thank you for saving the Galaxy, the Resistance wants to send you a secret message!

Your Mission:

View the DNS record from Mission 4. The Resistance provided you with a hidden message in the TXT record. Follow the steps included in the message.

note
A backup option is provided in the TXT record (as a website) in case the main Telnet site is unavailable.

Hint: Telnet might require switching to the IPv6 version of the site. Use man to research how to do this.
Take notes (or a screenshot) of the results.



Question 1
5 / 5 pts
What is the nslookup command you used to see the mail servers for Starwars?
  nslookup starwar.com -type=mx 
  nslookup -type=mx starwars.com 
Correct, the mx records are mail records.
  nslookup -type=mail starwars.com 
  nslookup starwars.com -type=mail 
 
Question 2
5 / 5 pts
What does MX stand for?
  Must Enforce 
  More Examples 
  Mail Exchange 
Correct. MX servers are a type of mail server used specifically for email traffic.
  Mail Crossing 
 
Question 3
5 / 5 pts
What is the nslookup command you used to look at the SPF record for theforce.net?
  nslookup -type=txt theforce.net 
Correct. This will view the SPF record.
  nslookup starwars.com -type=spf 
  nslookup theforce.net -type=spf 
  nslookup -type=sfp theforce.net 
 
Question 4
5 / 5 pts
Why were the Force's emails going to spam?
  The new mail server IP is not in the SPF record. 
Correct. The an SPF (Sender Policy Framework) record is a type of DNS record that identifies which mail servers are permitted to send email on behalf of your domain.
  The email content is encrypted, making it unreadable by spam filters. 
  The email server is set to the wrong time zone, confusing the receiving server's timestamp verification. 
  The email server is using an outdated version of SMTP that is incompatible with modern spam filters. 
 
Question 5
10 / 10 pts
What command would you use to view the CNAME of www.theforce.net?
  nslookup -type=CNAME www.theforce.net 
Correct, the correct command to view all records, including CNAME, for a domain is nslookup -type=CNAME
  nslookup -type=all www.theforce.net 
  nslookup -type=a www.theforce.net 
  nslookup -type=mx www.theforce.net 
 
Question 6
10 / 10 pts
What is the likely reason the subpage resistance.theforce.net isn't automatically redirecting to www.theforce.net?
  Because resistance.theforce.net has an incorrect MX record. 
  Because resistance.theforce.net is missing a CNAME record. 
Correct, because resistance.theforce.net is missing a CNAME record. Explanation: The solution indicates that the lack of a CNAME record for resistance.theforce.net is the reason for the failure in redirecting, thus making B the correct answer.
  Because resistance.theforce.net has an outdated A record. 
  Because www.theforce.net is down. 
 
Question 7
10 / 10 pts
To improve the resilience of the DNS for princessleia.site, what type of record should be added?
  CNAME record 
  A record 
  NS record 
Correct, adding an additional nameserver (NS) record will improve the resilience.
  MX record 
 
Question 8
10 / 10 pts
In optimizing the network path from Batuu to Jedha while avoiding Planet N, what routing protocol is used to determine the shortest path?
  OSPF 
Correct, Open Shortest Path First (OSPF) will choose the shortest path.
  RIP 
  BGP 
  EIGRP 
 
Question 9
10 / 10 pts
What tool is used to crack the Dark Side's secret wireless key?
  Kismet 
  Netstumbler 
  Aircrack-ng 
Correct, Aircrack-ng was used.
  Wireshark 
 
Question 10
10 / 10 pts
What is the shortest path from Batuu to Jedha that doesn't include Planet N?

 

 

  Batuu > D > C > F > E > J > I > Q > T > V > Jedha 
  Batuu > D > C > F > E > F > J > Q > T > V > Jedha 
  Batuu > D > C > E > F > J > I > L > Q > T > V > Jedha 
Correct, this path doesn't include Planet N.
  Batuu > D > C > E > F > J > I > L > T > V > Q > Jedha 
 
Question 11
10 / 10 pts
What is the wireless key?
dictionary
Correct, this was the wireless key from aircrack-ng.
 
IncorrectQuestion 12
0 / 10 pts
What is the website the TXT record tells you to go to via command?
telnet.com
Incorrect. Just input the website name and not the full command.