Activity File: Service Users
In the previous activity, we stopped and removed a few old services from the system.
In this activity, you will continue auditing the same server for your senior administrator.
The senior administrator would like you to remove any old service users from the system and create a new user that will be dedicated to running the Tripwire program.
To complete this activity, you will use the adduser and deluser commands with the correct flags to clean up the system and create this new Tripwire user.
Tripwire can only be run as root, so you will also need to add a line to the sudoers file to allow this.
Instructions
To clean up our system and to prevent any unwanted abuse of remnant service users, remove the following service users associated with the services that you removed in the previous activity:
Service users for the vsftpd service
Note: If you are stuck on where to find these service users, you can search through /etc/passwd for clues.
Create a tripwire user that will be dedicated to running Tripwire.
Verify that this user is a service user.
Verify that this user does not have a home folder.
Verify that this user is locked without a password.
Verify that this user does not have a login shell.
Add a line to the sudoers file to allow this user to run only tripwire using sudo privileges.
Change the permission of the tripwire program to only allow the owner to execute.
Bonus:
Remove the following service users associated with the services that you removed in the previous bonus activity:
Service users for any dovecot-related services


Solution Guide: Service Users
In the previous activity, we stopped and removed a few old services from the system. In this activity, we removed those users from the system and added a new service user for tripwire.
To complete this activity, we needed to:
Use the deluser command to remove lingering service users;
Use the adduser command with the correct flags to create a new tripwire use;
Edit the sudoers file to allow the tripwire user to run tripwire with sudo; and
Change the tripwire permissions to only allow the owner of tripwire to run the service.
Note: These steps are not always needed, as most services create their own user when the package is installed.
Solution
Note: The bonus solution is included.
The first step is to remove any service users associated with the following services: ftp and dovecot:
We can quickly find these users with grep "ftp\|dove" /etc/passwd.
To remove the service users, run sudo deluser --remove-all-files <username> for each user.
For example: sudo deluser --remove-all-files dovecot
We will create a tripwire user that will be dedicated to running Tripwire:
Run sudo adduser --system --no-create-home tripwire.
Run id tripwire and verify that the UID is less than 1,000.
Run ls /home to verify there is no tripwire home folder.
Remember, we can observe password entries in the /etc/shadow file.
Run sudo tail /etc/shadow.
The * in the password field for the Tripwire user means the user is locked without a password.
Run sudo tail /etc/passwd.
Note that usr/sbin/nologin is at the end of the Tripwire line.
We will add a line to the sudoers file in order to allow this user to run only tripwire using sudo privileges.
Run sudo visudo.
Add tripwire ALL= NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/tripwire to the user section of the file and save it.
The section should be as follows:
# User privilege specification
root ALL=(ALL:ALL) ALL
tripwire ALL= NOPASSWD: /usr/sbin/tripwire
We will change the permission of the tripwire program to only allow the owner to execute it.
Run which tripwire to locate the tripwire package.
Run sudo chmod 700 /usr/sbin/tripwire.
Run ls -l /usr/sbin/tripwire to verify.


