Activity File: Sudo Wrestling
So far, we have been using administrator privileges to stop processes, install software, copy sensitive files, run programs, and edit configuration files.
Now that we know users have weak passwords, we want to make sure none of them have unauthorized sudo access. The next steps provided by your senior administrator have to do with locking access to the compromised system, including sudo access.
In this activity, you will explore the sudo + less exploit, shown in the previous demonstration, and check the compromised system in order to determine if it is vulnerable. You will also edit the sudoers file to remove sudo access. Being able to determine what users or processes have root access and why is a core skill for a sysadmin.
This activity will use the same lab environment that you have been using for the previous activities.
Username: sysadmin
Password: cybersecurity
Instructions
Print the name of your current user to the terminal.
Determine what sudo privileges the sysadmin user has.
In a text document inside your research folder, record what sudo access each of the users on the system has.
There is one user who has sudo access for the less command. Find that user and complete the following:
Switch to that user by using the password found in the previous activity.
Verify the vulnerability by dropping from less into a root shell.
Exit back to the command line.
Exit that user.
Bonus
From the sysadmin user, switch to the root user.
Check the sudoers file to see if there are any users listed there with sudo privileges.
Edit the sudoers file so that only the administrator user has access.
Check that your changes to the sudoers file worked.
⚠️ Troubleshooting: If the sudoers file becomes damaged, it could stop you from using sudo at all. To troubleshoot this, follow the thread here: Ask Ubuntu: How to modify an invalid etc sudoers file

Solution Guide: Sudo Wrestling
Print the name of your current user to the terminal.
Run: whoami
Determine what sudo privileges the sysadmin user has.
Run: sudo -l
Record in a text document inside your research folder what sudo access the users on the system have.
Run:  sudo -lU <username> >> ~/research/sudo_access.txt
Find a user that has sudo access for the less command and complete the following:
Run: sudo -lU <username>.
Note: Alternatively, we can run sudo grep less /etc/sudoers.
Switch to that user by using the password you found in the previous activity.
Run: sudo su max (password: welcome)
Switch to that user's home directory.
Run: cd ~
Verify the vulnerability by dropping from less into a root shell.
Run sudo less shopping_list.txt then !bash.
Exit back to the command line.
Run exit to exit back into less. Run q to quit less.
Search this user's files for anything suspicious.
Run ls -a /home/max to reveal a copy of .rev_shell.sh
Exit that user.
Run: exit
Bonus
From the sysadmin user, switch to the root user.
Run: sudo su.
Check the sudoers file to determine if there are any users listed with sudo privileges.
Run: less /etc/sudoers
Note: grep less /etc/sudoers is a better command!
Note: Since we are root, we don't need sudo!
Edit the sudoers file so only the sysadmin user has access.
Run visudo and remove user max from sudo access.
You should remove the following line:
max  ALL=(ALL) /usr/bin/less
Check that your changes to the sudoers file worked.
Run su max and attempt sudo less somefile.
Note: Remember, it's always better to use sudo as opposed to su. We use su here only as a demonstration.
⚠️ Troubleshooting: If the sudoers file becomes damaged, it could stop you from using sudo at all. To troubleshoot this, follow the thread here: Ask Ubuntu: How to modify an invalid etc sudoers file

