Module 3 Day 2 Activity File: Learn New Commands

In this activity, you will continue in your role as a security analyst at Candy Corp.
Candy Corp has recently experienced a network attack on its websites. It needs your help determining which Candy website was the main target of the attack.
Your manager provides you with log files for each of Candy Corp's websites.
Each log file contains the IP addresses that connected to each website on the day of the attack.
You are tasked with counting the IP addresses in each file to determine which Candy website was the main target of the attack.

Instructions

Using only the command line, complete the following tasks from within the /03-student/day2/learning_new_commands/ folder in your Ubuntu virtual machine:
1- There are log files for each website within this directory. Each log file contains a list of IP addresses.
Each line represents an hour.
Each line includes the IP addresses that connected to the website during that hour.
2- Using man pages, research how to use the wc command to count the total number of IP addresses in each file.
Hint: There is more than one IP address on each line, so the line-count command will not work.
3- Run the command to determine which website had the most network connections and was, therefore, the likely target of the attack.

Bonus
Use redirection with the new command to place the total number of IP addresses for each file into a file called Connections_by_website.
Hint: Use a wildcard, such as *, to run this with a single command.



Solution Guide: Learn New Commands
First, navigate into the /03-student/day2/learning_new_commands folder on your virtual machine. To do this, run the following command:
cd /03-student/day2/learning_new_commands
Next, view the log files in this directory by running ls.
Notice that there are five files in this directory, one for each website:
Chocolateyfun.com
GummyGummy.com
PeanutButtery.net
Stickytoffee.com
SugaryGoodness.com
Next, preview the contents of a file to see the structure of the logs. Run the following:
head Chocolateyfun.com
Notice that in each log file, each line represents an hour and each line shows the IP addresses that connected to the website during that hour.
We don't want to use the wc -l command to count the lines. We need a command to count the total IP addresses in the file. Note that each IP is considered a word, as it is surrounded by spaces.
View the man page for wc to see how to count each IP address. Run the following command:
man wc
The man page shows that the option of -w will count the words. This will be the best option for this task.
Press Q to exit the man page.
Since we now know how to find the word count, run this on all five files:
wc -w Chocolateyfun.com
wc -w GummyGummy.com
wc -w PeanutButtery.net
wc -w Stickytoffee.com
wc -w SugaryGoodness.com
The results will show that PeanutButtery.net has the highest count and is likely the target of the attack.

155 Chocolateyfun.com
109 GummyGummy.com
533 PeanutButtery.net
129 Stickytoffee.com
113 SugaryGoodness.com
If you run nano GummyGummy.com, you'll notice that there are extra spaces on the fourth and fourteenth lines. The wc command counts spaces as words, so the exact number of IP addresses is only as accurate as the file itself.
Bonus
To run the word-count command against all the files, you have to use a wildcard: *. (Wildcards will be covered in more detail in the next lesson.) Run the command:
wc -w *
This will run the word-count command for all the files in the current directory with a single command.
If you want to redirect these results into the file, Connections_by_website, the command is:
wc -w * > Connections_by_website
Lastly, preview the Connections_by_website file to confirm the results are now in this file:
head Connections_by_website


