9.2 Student Guide: Email Networks and Security
Overview
Today's class builds on previous networking concepts, with a focus on sending, receiving, and securing emails. We will also review the various topics covered in the previous two weeks of classes.
Class Objectives
By the end of class, you will be able to:
Validate DNS records using nslookup.
Describe the process, protocols, and headers associated with email communication.
Analyze email headers to identify suspicious content.

 
Lab Environment
You will continue to use your networking lab.

Slideshow
The lesson slides are available on Google Drive here:9.2 Slides



01. Welcome and Introduction
In the previous class, we covered:
Networking concepts including DHCP, NAT, routing protocols, and wireless
How each of these networking concepts assist with transmitting data across networks to reach its destination
This lesson will build on the previous class with networking concepts related to sending, receiving, and securing emails.
We will cover the following concepts in the first half of class:
The various DNS record types and how they assist with sending and securing emails
Email protocols and the structure of an email
Email security issues and how to identify them
In the second half of the class, we will review all the networking concepts covered up to this point.



02. DNS Record Types
The Domain Name System (DNS) is the "phone book of the internet." We've covered how DNS is used to translate a domain name into a numerical IP address.
For example, DNS translates the domain www.google.com into the IP address 64.233.177.139.
DNS commonly operates on UDP port 53, but TCP port 53 is used as well.
UDP port 53 is primarily used for listening to DNS queries. Communication occurs in cleartext.
TCP port 53 is mostly used for zone transfers. It might also be utilized for queries and replies.
The domain name needs to be translated because computers connect to each other with IP addresses, not domain names.
This translation of a domain to an IP address is a type of DNS record.
Occasionally, DNS needs to provide other details about a domain.
For example: When you send an email, your email server needs to find the mail server name for the domain receiving the email.
These details are provided by the many other DNS record types.
The DNS zone file is an actual file containing all the DNS records for a particular domain.
A DNS zone file lives in a DNS server.
A DNS zone file contains a Time to Live (TTL), indicating how long a DNS cache will remember the information in the file before having to request an updated copy from the DNS server.
A DNS zone file also contains the DNS records with information about the domain.
DNS Record Types
While there are many available DNS record types, a handful of common DNS record types are important to know:
A record translates a domain into an IP address.
For example: An A record for widgets.com points to 23.43.54.234.
PTR record, opposite of an A record, translates an IP address into a domain.
For example: The PTR record of 23.43.54.234 points to widgets.com.
CNAME record (canonical name), is an alias record used to point one domain to another domain.
For example: A CNAME record pointing widgets2.com to widgets.com so a second DNS record doesn't need to be created for widgets2.com.
SOA record (start of authority) contains administrative details about a domain, such as:
Email address of the administrator
TTL value
When the domain was last updated
NS record (name server) indicates which server contains actual DNS records for a domain. It is also known as an authoritative name server.
For example: A device wants to know the IP address for widgets.com, and makes a DNS request asking which authoritative name server exists for widgets.com. Once the NS record is confirmed, the device can trust this record for obtaining the IP address (or any other DNS record type) from the domain widgets.com.
A domain can have multiple NS records for redundancy (if one fails, another is available).
For example: widgets.com has two name servers containing its DNS records:
ns1.dnscompany.com
ns2.dnscompany.com
NS records can also be used to point subdomains to name servers. For example, we can point the subdomain marketing.widgets.com to a DNS server of ns3.dnscompany.com.
Common DNS Attacks
DNS cache poisoning: This is when a malicious actor intercepts a DNS request from a client and replaces the legitimate DNS entry with the address of a malicious website.
Prevention method: Using DNSSEC is one way of preventing DNS poisoning. In simple terms, this adds verification steps to confirm the authenticity of a DNS's information.

DNS hijacking: This is when a malicious actor takes over a domain registrar account and can point traffic to their DNS server. This would allow them to direct users to any malicious site they choose.
Prevention method: Practice good password hygiene, using complex passwords. In addition, use multi-factor authentication if possible. When available, use domain name registry lock through your domain registrar to prevent unwanted changes.

DNS amplification: Attackers flood a DNS server with various domain name requests using a spoofed source address that points to a targeted victim's address. This sends all of the responses to the target's address to overload the target.
Prevention method: Make sure that the DNS server is updated and configured using good security practices. Disable recursive query services on internet-facing DNS servers and block requests from known attack sources. Another possible solution is to invest in IDS appliances that limit requests from certain IP addresses.

DNS Records and Email Communication
There are DNS record types that assist with email communications.
MX record (mail exchange) directs emails to a specific mail server for a domain.
For example: widgets.com has a mail server called mailhost.widgets.com.
If an email is sent to bob@widgets.com, the sender will validate that the MX record for widgets.com is mailhost.widgets.com.
The sender then directs the email to the mail server mailhost.widgets.com.
Just like NS records, domains can have multiple MX records for redundancy, in case one goes down or can't handle a large amount of traffic.
MX records have preferences for setting the primary and secondary mail servers.
These preferences are set with numerical preference numbers in front of the mail server name. The lower the preference number, the higher the priority.
For example: gadgets.com has the following MX records:
10 mailhost_Atlanta.gadgets.com
5 mailhost_NewYork.gadgets.com
20 mailhost_LA.gadgets.com
If an email comes into gadgets.com, it is first received by the New York mail server, because it has the lowest preference number. If the New York server is down, it will try Atlanta. If Atlanta is down, it will try the LA mail server.
TXT record (text) was originally created to include human-readable notes, such as an associated company name. These also include computer-readable data.
For example: The SPF record (sender policy framework), which determines if an email is from a trusted server, is an example of computer-readable TXT data.
Not all organizations send emails from mail servers within their domain.
Their mail servers may exist in another domain, or another organization may send marketing emails on an organization’s behalf.
An SPF record indicates which mail servers are allowed to send emails on behalf of a domain.
An SPF record's main purpose is to prevent spam, phishing, and email spoofing by detecting emails that may have a forged sender email.
An example of an SPF record is: v=spf1 ip4:192.41.100.193.
Syntax:
v= is the version of SPF used.
ip4: indicates that an IPv4 host is allowed to send emails.
192.41.100.193 is the IP of the mail server allowed to send emails on behalf of the domain.
SPF records example:
widgets.com's DNS SPF record indicates that 23.43.54.235 and 23.43.54.236 are the IP addresses of mail servers allowed to send emails on its behalf.
gadgets.com received a suspicious email from a widgets.com email.
When the receiving email server at gadgets.com receives the email, it completes the following steps:
Checks the sending mail server's IP address, 12.54.54.23.
Validates the DNS record of widgets.com's SPF record to confirm the sending mail server's IP address is either 23.43.54.235 or 23.43.54.236.
Since the sender's IP is 12.54.54.23 (not 23.43.54.235 or 23.43.54.236), gadgets.com's mail server can identify the email as spam and potentially reject it or send it to the recipient's spam folder.
nslookup
Networking and security professionals often need to look up a domain's DNS records.
For example: If emails aren't reaching their final destination, we would check the MX DNS record for that particular domain to make sure it's accurate.
There is a command-line tool called nslookup (name server lookup) that allows us to easily look up the DNS records of any domain.
nslookup is typically available on most operating systems without having to be installed.
nslookup Demonstration
Open the command line in your terminal and enter the following command:
nslookup gadget.com
The syntax for the request: nslookup [domain].
Press Enter and your results should return in the following format:
Server:	   127.0.0.53
Address:   127.0.0.53#53

Non-authoritative answer:
Name:	    gadget.com
Address:    162.243.110.34


Output breakdown:
Server:    127.0.0.53
Address:   127.0.0.53#53

It indicates your default DNS server and its associated IP address.
Note: Results will vary based on your default DNS server.
Non-authoritative answer:
It indicates that this information is cached and not from the domain's primary (authoritative) name server.
Name:    gadget.com
Address: 162.243.110.34
The result from the A record, indicating the IP address of gadget.com is 162.243.110.34.
nslookup can look up specific DNS record types:
Enter the following command:
nslookup -type=NS gadget.com
Syntax:
nslookup -type=[NS record type] [domain]
Press Enter. Your new results should include the two name server records and their associated IP addresses:
Server:		    127.0.0.53
Address:            127.0.0.53#53

Non-authoritative answer:
gadget.com	    nameserver = ns1.dnsnameservers.net
gadget.com	    nameserver = ns2.dnsnameservers.net


You can look up other DNS record types by changing the value NS to another DNS record type.
For example:
To look up the MX record:
nslookup -type=MX gadget.com
To look up the A record:
nslookup -type=A gadget.com
To look up the SOA record:
nslookup -type=SOA gadget.com



03. Activity: DNS Record Types
M9.2 Activity File: DNS Record Types

04. Activity Review: DNS Record Types

05. Introduction to Email Networking
While it seems simple to send an email from one address to another, there are many processes and technologies working in the background to make this magic happen.
Understanding how this detailed process works can assist network and security professionals in identifying email issues or attacks.
The following scenario illustrates the steps involved in sending and receiving an email.
Step 1: Bob uses Microsoft Outlook to send an email to Alice.
Bob, whose email is Bob@bob.com, composes an email to send to Alice, whose email is Alice@alice.com.
Once Bob clicks Send, the email is forwarded to Bob's company's email server.
The email server is also referred to as the MTA (mail transfer agent).
Step 2: Bob's mail server finds Alice's mail server.
Bob's mail server does a DNS lookup against alice.com to determine its mail server.
Bob's mail server gets this information from alice.com's MX record.
Step 3: Bob's mail server forwards the email to Alice's mail server.
Using a protocol called SMTP (Simple Mail Transfer Protocol), Bob's mail server sends the email to Alice's mail server.
SMTP uses port 25 and is part of Layer 7: Application of the OSI model.
Step 4: Alice pulls Bob's email onto her local computer to read it.
Bob's email is currently sitting on Alice's email server, and Alice needs to pull it from this server to read it.
Two protocols can be used to transfer the email to Alice's local computer:
POP3
With POP3 (Post Office Protocol), when Alice logs in and checks her email from Bob, the POP3 mailbox doesn't keep a copy of the email.
Alice would not be able to log into another computer to view Bob's email, as it has already been downloaded from the mail server.
POP3 has a security benefit, as the email will not exist on a server the recipient doesn't control.
POP3 uses port 110 and is part of Layer 7: Application of the OSI model.
IMAP
With IMAP (Internet Message Access Protocol), a copy of the email is kept on the server.
Even after Alice logs in and checks her email from Bob, she can check it again from another computer.
IMAP has the benefit of preventing data from being lost, as it backs up emails on a server.
IMAP uses port 143 and is part of Layer 7: Application of the OSI model.
Understanding these steps is important for diagnosing and troubleshooting email issues.
For example: If employees at your organization are able to send emails but not receive them, it's possible there is a DNS issue, or your DNS MX record may be misconfigured.
Email Headers
To complete the steps in the email process, emails have specific headers that contain fields that assist with the process.
There are many header fields that can be used for emails, some required and some optional.
You will be familiar with some fields, as they are displayed in standard email clients:
From email address: The email of the sender (required)
To email address: The email of the recipient (required)
Email subject: The field for describing the subject of the email (optional)
Email message body: The field containing the message (optional)
Date/Time: Date and time the email was sent. This is added by the email client


Some less familiar fields are available by viewing the complete, raw email in your email client.
To view the raw email in Gmail, click on the three vertical dots on the right side of the email.

Select "Show Original" from the dropdown to view the raw email.

Scroll down on this page, and you will see the raw email.

Some of the most important fields in this raw email are:
Return-path: Specifies the sender's return email
Delivered-to: Specifies the recipient's email
Received: Shows a list of mail servers, illustrating the path taken by the email from its source to destination
This is an important field because it contains the IP address of the originator of the email.
The following image only shows one mail server, but occasionally the Received header will show an email passing through multiple mail servers.


Message-ID: A unique string created by the sending mail server as an identifier of the email.
Received SPF: The SPF verification field, which we will cover in more detail in the next activity.

You may notice email headers that begin with an "x", such as: x-mailer and x-Google-Smtp-Source.
The "x" signifies an extension of the standard headers.
These header records are optional and are typically used for custom applications.
They can also provide additional services for tracking, reporting, and authentication.



06. Activity: Email Networking
M9.2 Activity File: Email Networking

07. Activity Review: Email Networking

08. Email Security Issues
While email provides many benefits, it also comes with many security concerns.
One of the top email concerns for most users and businesses is spam.
Spam is not an acronym. It is defined as "the sending of unsolicited emails."
Over 60% of all emails can be identified as spam.
While spam isn't inherently dangerous, a large number of spam emails can be very inconvenient for organizations.
Many email systems have developed advanced methods for detecting and stopping spam emails.
These methods involve using SPF records, matching lists of known spam senders, and identifying keywords.
A second email issue is the sending of confidential emails across unencrypted channels.
Emails are almost always not encrypted.
Emails are typically routed across multiple mail servers before reaching their destinations, opening up the risk of email interception and views by unauthorized users.
Several technologies can be used to encrypt confidential emails such as:
PGP (Pretty Good Privacy)
S/MIME (Secure/Multipurpose Internet Mail Extensions)
The challenge of PGP and S/MIME is that they involve coordination and setup between the email sender and the email receiver.
A third email security issue is email spoofing.
Email spoofing is when an email is designed to trick the receiver into believing it comes from a trusted source.
Explain how email spoofing works with phishing by covering the following:
Phishing is an attempt to gain sensitive information from an email recipient and is often accomplished through email spoofing.
For example: A scammer sends you an email, pretending to be from your bank, asking you to update your username and password.
At first glance, the spoofed email looks like it legitimately came from your bank.
The email may contain a phishing URL that has a fake bank login page, which maliciously captures your banking username and password.
According to a recent report from Microsoft, phishing attacks are by far the most common cybersecurity threat—increasing a massive 250% since the previous report was published. (Source: CPO Magazine)
Fortunately, email spoofing can be detected with several methods, which analyze the raw email headers in sent emails.
Method 1: The From Email Header
The simplest way to check for phishing is to look at the From email header.
Spammers and phishers often disguise their true source email, changing the displayed email source to a name the recipient will trust or recognize. For example:
You check your inbox and see an email from "Citibank."
When you view the raw email header in either the "From" field, or the "Return-Path," the true email address of the sender is displayed.
The email address is sdfs2344dsf@yahoo.com—it doesn't have a @citibank domain. This is an indicator of a malicious email.
Phishers also sometimes make a slight change to the name of the sending domain.
Look closely at the email for any small misspellings.
For example, a phisher could use the From email domain of @cittibank.com, with an additional "t" in the domain.

Method 2: The Received-SPF Email Header
The SPF record is used to identify which mail servers are authorized to send emails on behalf of a domain.
Received-SPF is an email header that displays the results of validating the SPF record.
Received-SPF uses the IP address from the Received field and determines if it's an IP of an authorized sender.
If the IP is accepted, it will display as a "pass."
For example:
Received-SPF: pass (google.com: domain of michael@acme.com designates 76.87.4.15 as permitted sender)
If the IP is not accepted, it will display as a "fail."
For example:
Received-SPF: fail (google.com: domain of michael@acmers.com does not designate 174.81.74.11 as permitted sender)
Method 3: The Received Email Header
The Received header includes the source IP of the mail server that sent the email.
There are many web tools available to look up IP address information.
For example, the ARIN Whois/RDAP tool.
While this isn't always the simplest way to validate a legitimate email sender, it is used by security professionals to provide additional information about the sender.
The following example is a case in which this method would be useful:
You receive an email from a US-based government organization, such as the IRS.
The IP address from the Received header record is 41.32.23.52.
Looking up this IP on arin.net shows the location of the IP is Egypt.
This indicates that the email is probably not legitimate, as it's unlikely that a US-based government organization would have a mail server based in Africa.
Many email systems have built-in technologies that automate these methods to identify and detect spoofed and phishing emails.
However, these automated systems aren't perfect, and can miss spoof and phishing emails.
Therefore, it's important for security professionals to understand how to use these methods themselves.


Method 4: Using AI/ML tools to validate URLs/Links in emails
Many malicious emails contain links that may contain malware or try to deceive the user into giving away their credentials to legitimate websites.
Fortunately, there are web applications that use AI/ML to assist in determining the legitimacy of these links/URLs
scamadviser.com is a website designed to check and rate the legitimacy of websites.
scamadviser.com utilizes AI/ML to validate websites by:
Viewing the website metadata: Hosting location, registrar, certificate information
Analyzing the website behavior: Website code, pop ups, redirects
Scanning external sources: Public blacklists, cybersecurity forums, security information sharing websites
Risk scoring: AI algorithms use the above data to create a potential risk score based on their findings
scamadviser.com works by completing the following steps:
Using your browser, open scamadviser.com
Explain how you would use this website if you found suspicious links/domains in an email.
You could validate the links by entering them in the search field on the top of the webpage.
As an example, enter in www.example.com and press enter.
Note how the following page indicates it is safe website.
The Trust Score is  on the left side of the webpage
Click on the What is this? right below it
This shows what is used positively and negatively in their ML algorithms to calculate the trust score.
Just because a website shows a positive trust score, it doesn't mean an email isn't a phishing email.
This is just an additional resource to help analyze an email.
Many email systems have built-in technologies that automate these methods to identify and detect spoofed and phishing emails.
However, these automated systems aren't perfect, and can miss spoofed and phishing emails.
Therefore, it's important for security professionals to understand how to use these methods themselves.
In the next activity, you will continue to analyse the emails from the previous activity.
You will use the methods explained here in combination with the header data to determine which of the emails is not legitimate.





09. Activity: Email Security
M9.2 Activity File: Email Security

10. Activity Review: Email Security

11. Break (0:15)

12. Networking Concepts
For the remainder of the class, we will review the networking concepts covered in the previous networking classes.
Review tasks include:
Opening up the provided assets, such as PCAP files and documents
Answering the provided questions
You should use all available resources, such as:
Previous class slides
Previous class notes
Online searches
Their classmates
Reviewing these concepts will help you prepare for the Networking Capture the Flag contest in the next class.



13. Activity: Networking Concepts Review
M9.2 Activity File: Networking Review Part 1

14. Activity Review: Networking Review Activity

15. Networking Attacks
The last part of the networking concepts review focuses on networking attacks.
Review tasks include:
Opening the provided assets, such as PCAP files or documents
Answering the provided questions
You should use all available resources, such as:
Previous class slides
Previous class notes
Online searches
Your classmates

16. Activity: Networking Attacks
M9.2 Activity File: Networking Review Part 2


17. Activity Review: Networking Attacks

