Module 8 Day 2 : Analyzing HTTP Data
Activity File: Analyze HTTP Data
In this exercise, you will continue to play the role of a security analyst at Acme Corp.
Your manager provides you with a capture of web traffic from Sally Stealer. They would like you to analyze the traffic to determine if Sally is a spy for your rival company, WidgetCorp.
Your manager has tasked you with analyzing the web traffic to determine what websites and webpages Sally accessed. You must also interrogate the logs to see if Sally sent any communications to WidgetCorp.
Instructions
Use Wireshark to open the packet capture you were provided.
Determine what websites Sally visited.
Hint: Inspect the HTTP packet details to find the websites visited.
Determine which PHP pages were visited on the websites.
Determine if Sally sent any communications.
Hint: Look for POST requests.
Based on the above findings, summarize whether you believe Sally has malicious intent.

Solution Guide: Analyze HTTP Data
The goal of this exercise was to practice analyzing captured HTTP packets. This exercise also emphasized the security risk presented by unencrypted HTTP traffic.
This activity required the following steps:
Opening a packet capture
Creating a filter for HTTP traffic
Isolating websites and the PHP webpages visited within those websites
Analyzing POST requests for transmitted data

First, open the packet capture in Wireshark by selecting File > Open.
Determine the websites visited by Sally Stealer.
Apply the filter to display HTTP GET requests by running the following:
http.request.method == "GET"
Scan the logs and look in the frame details. Review the various hosts under the HTTP dropdown. The results are:
howtobeaspy.com
howtousebitcoin.com
acmecompany.yolasite.com
widgetcorp.yolasite.com
Determine which PHP pages were visited on the websites.
Filter to display HTTP get requests for PHP pages by running the following:
http && frame contains "php HTTP"
The results are:
salesprojections.php
Intellectualproperty.php
Determine if Sally sent any communications.
Filter to look for the POST command using:
http.request.method == "POST"
Open the HTML form URL under the HTTP data. The communication states:
"This is Sally Stealer, I have the secret sales projections and intellectual property as we discussed. Please send me the 5 bitcoin as promised. Hurry. Acme is starting to have suspicions."
Summarize the findings to determine if Sally has malicious intent.
Based on the websites Sally accessed and the message she sent to WidgetCorp, it's clear she is a spy trying to sell private data to Acme Corp's rival.



