Module 3 Day 3 Activity File: grep

You will continue in your role as a security analyst at Candy Corp.
Your manager now needs to know which of the secret recipes include guavaberries.
Even if Sugar Corp was able to obtain the secret recipe, they won't be able to produce the candy, since Candy is the sole owner of the guavaberry plant.
Your task is to determine which of the secret recipes contain guavaberries in the list of ingredients.

Instructions
Using only the command line, continue to complete the following tasks in the /03-student/day2/finding_your_way/ folder in your Ubuntu virtual machine:
1- Navigate back into the PeanutButtery.net directory that contained the secret recipes.
Hint: Remember, by default grep does not search subdirectories, so make sure you are in the directory with the secret recipes.
Bonus: Search the man page for grep to find a way to search subdirectories.
2- Find all recipes that include the word "guavaberries" in their list of ingredients.

Bonus

Your manager realizes that some of the recipes require guavaberries as optional, and is now concerned Sugar Corp can still make these secret recipes.
Compose a single command to find all the files that have the word "guavaberries" OR "optional" in the recipe.


Solution Guide: grep
The first step is to navigate into the folder on our virtual machines where the recipes are located. To do this, run the following commands:
cd /03-student/day2/
cd finding_your_way/
cd PeanutButtery.net/other/disregard/candysecretrecipes
We need to search for recipes containing the ingredient "guavaberries." The command to search for them in this directory is as follows:
grep -i guavaberries *
Note the syntax:
grep is the command being run.
-i is the option for grep that indicates case insensitivity.
guavaberries is the specific data point being searched for.
* is a wildcard, indicating the command should search through all files in the current directory.
After running the command, the results show the following four files contain "guavaberries":
recipe_crunchybars:5 guavaberries
recipe_peanutballs:4 guavaberries
recipe_peanutsquares:8 guavaberries
recipe_yumbars:2 guavaberries
These results show the file names of all recipes that include guavaberry as an ingredient, followed by a colon and the line in which "guavaberries" appears.
Bonus
Adjust the grep command to search for files that also contain the word "optional," indicating that the guavaberries are an optional ingredient.
The command to search for multiple data points in a file is:
grep -i 'guavaberries\|optional' *
Note the syntax:
grep is the command being run.
-i is the option for grep that indicates case insensitivity.
guavaberries is the first specific data point being searched for
\| Indicates OR.
It is included between values to search for multiple values using one command.
optional is the second data point being searched for.
* is a wildcard indicating the command should search through all files in the current directory.
Run the command, and notice that the results show all four files, but five lines contain "guavaberries" OR "optional":

  recipe_crunchybars:5 guavaberries

  recipe_peanutballs:4 guavaberries

  recipe_peanutsquares:8 guavaberries

  recipe_peanutsquares:  Note: optional - another berry that can be substituted is blueberries

  recipe_yumbars:2 guavaberries
This shows that recipe_peanutsquares has an "optional" note stating that blueberries can be used in place of guavaberries.
This shows that Candy Corp should be the most concerned about the peanut squares recipe, as Sugar can make it without guavaberries.




